in this video tutorial,
we look at how VB a allows you to work with date variables.
We'll also have a quick look at working with Boolean variables.
So here we are once again the Section three model,
and what we'll do in this tutorial is to create a macro which calculates the difference
between the current date and a target date,
as we did with the number variables.
We'll also look at how you conform at dates to display exactly as you want them to,
and we'll also be used in a 1,000,000,000 variable to keep track of whether or not our
countdown has reached a critical stage.
So 0305 k and we'll call it a date countdown.
Let's just switch across to procedure view So we'll dem de a t target as dates and also str
Target has string.
This will store the formatted version of our date.
We won't bother creating a variable for the current date itself because the function now,
three letters,
um does the job,
so we don't really need a variable for that,
but we will create one for the formatted current date,
said S.
T ah today as strange then we'll create an inter variable to store the number of days
remaining.
And finally our 1,000,000,000 bln critical ask trillion.
We've looked at how you use literal strings and you enclose them in quotation marks.
The equivalent for dates is the half symbol,
so it's going to be let the 80 target equal and then the assemble and the date goes in in
US format.
So let's say the date is gonna be the first of April 2014.
Well,
them in the UK I would still put four stroke,
one stroke Teoh one full.
Now let's get a formatted version of this.
So let str targets equal and this time we can use the function,
format,
date time and this is a string function.
So the expression it's looking for is gonna be de a T targets and then the format is a VB
constant.
So let's go with the long date and then we go straight on to do the same for today's date.
So str today equals format state time now is the function that we use and again is gonna be
baby Long date.
Now we want to calculate the difference between the two dates.
So let's I n t diss on the function that actually does this calculation.
His date def.
First of all,
you specify the interval as a strength.
So we're interested in the days and then you put the two days so date one will be now and
date too.
DHC targets based on i n t d.
If we can now calculate our 1,000,000,000 so let be a land critical equal.
And then we put a test into this less than or equal to and let's say,
14 so that logical test will return either true or false.
So now we have everything we need.
We can compose a message.
So let's say a mystery box and we'll start with the target date.
So carnet dates ampersand str target the formatted version and then we'll put a carriage
return which we can do by using the constant BBC are then ampersand on will then split the
line and then just having a little.
Then we got today's date ampersand str today undersigned BBC are can percents placed under
school Then we won't days remaining ampersand.
Certainly these we are to discern space underscore and finally,
let's say status critical Empress owned Bln.
Critical.
That's a message.
Let's not save out changes and test a macro.
So we got the first of April is the target.
Today is the 19th of March.
13 days remain in.
Hence our Boolean value returns.
True as well as using format date time,
you can also use the format function that we saw in the previous video.
This actually gives you more flexibility.
So,
for example,
if we wanted to display the day of the week instead of full that day time,
we could just use format and then here,
instead of using the VB constant,
we can now use this strength to get the day of the week.
For example,
we could use three or four days,
so three ds will give you the abbreviated name of the day.
Four days will give you the full name of the day.
Then let's say we want a single D for the actual number,
so no leading zero will be inserted for the first of April.
Then we want April to be the full month.
So that's four EMS and then we want to fold four digit year.
So let's just copy that and do the same here,
so we'll make it format instead of format,
date time and just paste over our full meant.
Let's compare the results.
The first of April is going to be a Tuesday.
Today's the Wednesday on again,
Let's save our changes.
Literal dates are normally enclosed in half symbols.
In USA format,
the day to day function is used to calculate the difference between two dates.
In a given interval of time,
the format date time function could be used to apply a preset format to a given date.
The format function could be used to generate a custom formatted date.